docs: add updating to v17 guide (#52410)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/update-to-version-17.md

<!--                                                                                              -->

This topic provides information about updating your Angular applications to Angular version 17.

For a summary of this information and the step-by-step procedure to update your Angular application
to v17, see the [Angular Update Guide](https://update.angular.io).

The information in the [Angular Update Guide](https://update.angular.io) and this topic is
summarized from these changelogs:

- [angular/angular changelog](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [angular/angular-cli changelog](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [angular/components changelog](https://github.com/angular/components/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)

Information about updating Angular applications to v16 is archived at
[Update to version 16](/guide/update-to-version-16).

<a id="new-features"></a>

## Feature highlights in Angular v17

For a more comprehensive list of new features, see the
[Angular blog post on the update to v17](https://blog.angular.io).

<!-- markdownLint-disable MD001 -->

#### Deferrable views

> The new deferrable views allow you to lazily load all the components, directives, and pipes in a a section of your template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new deferrable views allow you to lazily load all the components, directives, and pipes in a section of your template:
```

```html
@defer (on viewport) {
  <comment-list />
} @placeholder {
  <!-- A placeholder content to show until the comments load -->
  <img src="comments-placeholder.png" />
}
```

In the example above, Angular first renders the contents of the placeholder block. When it becomes visible in the viewport, the loading of the `<comment-list />` component starts. Once the loading is completed, Angular removes the placeholder and renders the component.

> #### Built-in control flow

Reviewer 2: nit: I'd propose switching the "Built-in control flow" and "Deferrable views" sections, because `@defer` depends on a new syntax, so we can introduce it first.

We used a new block syntax for an optimized, built-in control flow. After running user studies we identified that a lot of developers struggle with `*ngIf`, `*ngSwitch`, and `*ngFor`.

It includes conditional statements:

```text
@if (loggedIn) {
  The user is logged in
} @else {
  The user is not logged in
}
```

Switch statements:

```text
@switch (accessLevel) {
  @case ('admin') { <admin-dashboard/> }
  @case ('moderator') { <moderator-dashboard/> }
  @default { <user-dashboard/> }
}
```

And for loop:

```text
@for (user of users; track user.id) {

>     {{ user.name }}

Reviewer 3: Too much indent?

} @empty {
  Empty list of users
}
```

> In addition to the improved ergonomics, the control flow is also up to 90% faster for certain performance benchmarks.

Reviewer 2: nit: reworded a bit to put emphasis on perf improvement itself and less on the benchmarks.
```suggestion
In addition to the improved ergonomics, the control flow brings runtime performance improvements. In certain performance benchmarks, we see new control being up to 90% faster.
```

As of v17, the built-in control flow is in developer preview. To update your projects to using it run the schematic:

```sh
ng generate @angular/core:control-flow
```

#### New `@angular/ssr` package

> We moved the Angular Universal repository to the Angular CLI repository and made server-side rendering an even more integral part of our tooling offering.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We moved the code powering Angular server-side rendering from `angular/universal` to `angular/angular-cli`, integrating SSR more directly into our tooling.
```

maybe name the repos?

Starting today, to add SSR support to your existing application run:

```sh
ng add @angular/ssr
```

> This command will generate the server entry point, add SSR and SSG build capabilities, and enable hydration by default. `@angular/ssr` provides equivalent functionality to` @nguniversal/express-engine` which is currently in maintenance mode. The Angular CLI will automatically update your code to `@angular/ssr`!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This command generates the server entry point, adds SSR and SSG build capabilities, and enables hydration by default. `@angular/ssr` provides equivalent functionality to` @nguniversal/express-engine` which is currently in maintenance mode. The Angular CLI will automatically update your code to `@angular/ssr` with `ng update`!
```

> 
> #### New lifecycle hooks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The `ng new` command was also updated to include a prompt that allows you to enable SSR and SSG while creating an application.

#### New lifecycle hooks
```

To improve the performance of Angular’s SSR and SSG, in the long-term we’d like to move away from DOM emulation and direct DOM manipulations. At the same time, throughout most applications’ lifecycle they need to interact with elements to instantiate third-party libraries, measure element size, etc.

> To enable this, we developed a set of new lifecycle hooks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable this, we've collaborated with the Chrome Aurora team to develop a set of new lifecycle hooks:
```

- `afterRender` - register a callback to be invoked each time the application finishes rendering
- `afterNextRender` - register a callback to be invoked the next time the application finishes rendering

Only the browser will invoke these hooks, which enables you to plug custom DOM logic safely directly inside your components. For example, if you’d like to instantiate a charting library you can use afterNextRender:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'my-chart-cmp',
  template: `<div #chart>{{ ... }}</div>`,
})
export class MyChartCmp {
  @ViewChild('chart') chartRef: ElementRef;
  chart: MyChart | null;

  constructor() {
    afterNextRender(() => {
      this.chart = new MyChart(this.chartRef.nativeElement);
    });
  }
}
```

#### Vite and esbuild the default for new projects

In v16 we introduced developer preview of the esbuild plus Vite powered build experience. Since then a lot of developers experimented with it and enterprises! Today, we’re happy to announce that the new application builder graduates from developer preview and is enabled by default for all new applications!

> We updated the build pipeline when using hybrid rendering. With SSR & SSG you can observe up to 87% speed improvement in ng build and 80% faster edit-refresh loop in for `ng serve`.

Reviewer 3: Should we mention anything about switching existing applications to the new builder?

#### Dependency injection debugging in DevTools

> Over the past few months, we implemented brand new debugging APIs that allow us to plug into the framework’s runtime and inspect the injector tree.

Reviewer 3: Would it be useful to have a screenshot here?

<a id="v17-bc-06"></a>

#### Routes with `loadComponent` data inheritance

Child routes with `loadComponent` no longer automatically inherit their data from their parent by default. In v17 the default `paramsInheritanceStrategy` is `emptyOnly`. If you want to inherit parent data in child routes update the strategy to `always`.

<a id="v17-bc-07"></a>

#### Router absolute redirect behavior change

Absolute redirects no longer prevent further redirects. You may need to adjust route configurations to prevent infinite redirects. Previously the router was ignoring all redirects after an absolute redirect.

<a id="v17-bc-08"></a>

#### Removal of `setupTestingRouter`

Use `RouterModule.forRoot` or `provideRouter` to setup the Router for tests instead of `setupTestingRouter`.

<a id="v17-bc-09"></a>

#### Removal of `malformedUriErrorHandler`

We removed `malformedUriErrorHandler` from the `RouterModule.forRoot` options. To handle URL parsing errors use the `UrlSerializer.parse` method.

<a id="v17-bc-10"></a>

#### Removal of zone.js bundles

> In v17 we removed `zone-testing-bundle` and `zone-testing-node-bundle` which now prevents you from using `dist/` imports like `zone.js/bundles/zone-testing.js` and `zone.js/dist/zone`.

Reviewer 2: It'd be great to rephrase this a bit and explain **why** we've done this.
